README.md, before:

# argh

The last argument parser that you'll ever need!

argh is a C++ library that provides a simple, powerful, and easy-to-use
API for parsing command line arguments.

## Features:

* **Lightning-quick.** No complicated input validation. No internal type conversions. No regular expressions. Enjoy the performance benefits of plain old C++!
* **Easy to use.** No manual parsing. No special cases or special handling of flags. argh works for you to take the busywork out of writing your command-line utility.
* **Versatile.** It *just works* in every situation.
* **Support for grouped flags.** `prg do_a_thing -a -b -c` is the same as `prg do_a_thing -abc` (which is the same as `prg -abc do_a_thing`).
* **Support for options.** Know that the user specified an output file with `prg -o output.txt do_a_thing`.
* **Support for ordered arguments.**
* **Unit tests** with the popular gtest library.
* **Indepdendent.** The only dependency outside of the standard library is the gtest library, which is only used for unit tests and is automatically downloaded and compiled as necessary with Bazel.
* All that, and even **a bag of chips!**

*Note: actual chips not included.

# Example Usage:

    #include "argh/argh.h"

    #include <string>

    int main(int argc, char* argv[])
    {
        argh::argh args(argc, argv);
        // And just like that, the arguments are parsed and available in args!

        if (args["-v"])
        {
            std::cout << "Version ..." << std::endl;
            return 0;
        }

        if (args["-h"] || args["--help"])
        {
            std::cout << Usage: ... << std::endl;
            return 0;
        }

        if (args["-o"])
        {
            std::cout << "Output file: " << args("-o") << std::endl;
        }

        std::cout << "Program name: " << args[0] << std::endl;
        std::cout << "First argument: " << args[1] << std::endl;
        // ...
    }

# Documentation:

## Core Concepts:

* **Argument:** A single entry in `argv`.

We follow the GNU conventions of arguments. There are two kinds of arguments: *options* and *positional arguments.*

* **Option:** An argument that starts with a `-` or `--`.

There are two kinds of options: *flags* and *parameters.*

* **Flag:** Boolean options that are either *present* or *not present.*

* **Parameter:** An option that takes a value. If a parameter contains the character '=', its value is the rest of the string. Otherwise, the value is the next argument in the argv vector.

* **Positional Argument:** An argument that does not start with a `-` or `--`, and that is not the value of a parameter.

## Nota Bene:

The parser cannot understand on its own whether an argument that does not start with a `-` or `--` is *the value of a parameter* or *a positional argument.*

That is, if the arguments were `prg -v output.txt`, should we interpret `output.txt` as the value of the `-v` option or as its own positional argument?


For this reason, all arguments that are not flags or parameters are considered positional arguments by default. If you want to change this behavior, use one of the following approaches:

1. Use the `argh::set_parameter(parameter)` function to mark the argument
following a given parameter as the parameter's value.
2. Use the `argh::operator(parameter)` operater to query the value of a parameter
before using the argh::operator[] to access the positional arguments.

That being said,

## Class members:

### `argh::argh(int argc, char* argv[])`

The argh constructor.

`int argc` - The count of command line arguments.

`char* argv[]` - The command line arguments.

### `void argh::mark_parameter(std::string arg)`

A method to mark an argument as a parameter, not a flag.

`std::string arg` - The argument to mark as a parameter.

### `bool argh::operator[](std::string name)`

Overload the [] operator to access a single flag's value by name.

`std::string name` - The name of the flag.

`return (bool)` - True when the flag is present, false otherwise.

### `std::string argh::operator()(std::string name)`

Overload the () operator to access the parameters by name.

`std::string name` - The name of the parameter.

`return (std::string)` - The value of the parameter, if present; otherwise, an empty string.

### `std::string argh::operator[](int index)`

Overload the [] operator to access the positional arguments by index.

`int index` - The index of the positional argument.

`return (std::string)` - The value of the positional argument.

# Build:

The argh library is built using Google's Bazel utility.

    $ cd src && bazel build //argh

And that's it. That is seriously all it takes. The binary will be put in the `bazel-bin` directory.

If you want to run the unit tests, you can do so with:
    
    $ cd src && bazel test //argh/tests:argh.test

Also, you can run the unit tests with ASAN profiling:

    $ cd src && bazel test --config=asan //argh/tests:argh.test

Bazel will automatically download and build the gtest library for you, run the tests, and save the results in the `bazel-testlogs` directory.

Commit message:

Add size() method to argh.

README.md, after:

# argh

The last argument parser that you'll ever need!

argh is a C++ library that provides a simple, powerful, and easy-to-use
API for parsing command line arguments.

## Features:

* **Lightning-quick.** No complicated input validation. No internal type conversions. No regular expressions. Enjoy the performance benefits of plain old C++!
* **Easy to use.** No manual parsing. No special cases or special handling of flags. argh works for you to take the busywork out of writing your command-line utility.
* **Versatile.** It *just works* in every situation.
* **Support for grouped flags.** `prg do_a_thing -a -b -c` is the same as `prg do_a_thing -abc` (which is the same as `prg -abc do_a_thing`).
* **Support for options.** Know that the user specified an output file with `prg -o output.txt do_a_thing`.
* **Support for ordered arguments.**
* **Unit tests** with the popular gtest library.
* **Indepdendent.** The only dependency outside of the standard library is the gtest library, which is only used for unit tests and is automatically downloaded and compiled as necessary with Bazel.
* All that, and even **a bag of chips!**

*Note: actual chips not included.

# Example Usage:

    #include "argh/argh.h"

    #include <string>

    int main(int argc, char* argv[])
    {
        argh::argh args(argc, argv);
        // And just like that, the arguments are parsed and available in args!

        if (args["-v"])
        {
            std::cout << "Version ..." << std::endl;
            return 0;
        }

        if (args["-h"] || args["--help"])
        {
            std::cout << Usage: ... << std::endl;
            return 0;
        }

        if (args["-o"])
        {
            std::cout << "Output file: " << args("-o") << std::endl;
        }

        std::cout << "Program name: " << args[0] << std::endl;
        std::cout << "First argument: " << args[1] << std::endl;
        // ...
    }

# Documentation:

## Core Concepts:

* **Argument:** A single entry in `argv`.

We follow the GNU conventions of arguments. There are two kinds of arguments: *options* and *positional arguments.*

* **Option:** An argument that starts with a `-` or `--`.

There are two kinds of options: *flags* and *parameters.*

* **Flag:** Boolean options that are either *present* or *not present.*

* **Parameter:** An option that takes a value. If a parameter contains the character '=', its value is the rest of the string. Otherwise, the value is the next argument in the argv vector.

* **Positional Argument:** An argument that does not start with a `-` or `--`, and that is not the value of a parameter.

## Nota Bene:

The parser cannot understand on its own whether an argument that does not start with a `-` or `--` is *the value of a parameter* or *a positional argument.*

That is, if the arguments were `prg -v output.txt`, should we interpret `output.txt` as the value of the `-v` option or as its own positional argument?


For this reason, all arguments that are not flags or parameters are considered positional arguments by default. If you want to change this behavior, use one of the following approaches:

1. Use the `argh::set_parameter(parameter)` function to mark the argument
following a given parameter as the parameter's value.
2. Use the `argh::operator(parameter)` operater to query the value of a parameter
before using the argh::operator[] to access the positional arguments.

That being said,

## Class members:

### `argh::argh(int argc, char* argv[])`

The argh constructor.

`int argc` - The count of command line arguments.

`char* argv[]` - The command line arguments.

### `void argh::mark_parameter(std::string arg)`

A method to mark an argument as a parameter, not a flag.

`std::string arg` - The argument to mark as a parameter.

### `bool argh::operator[](std::string name)`

Overload the [] operator to access a single flag's value by name.

`std::string name` - The name of the flag.

`return (bool)` - True when the flag is present, false otherwise.

### `std::string argh::operator()(std::string name)`

Overload the () operator to access the parameters by name.

`std::string name` - The name of the parameter.

`return (std::string)` - The value of the parameter, if present; otherwise, an empty string.

### `std::string argh::operator[](int index)`

Overload the [] operator to access the positional arguments by index.

`int index` - The index of the positional argument.

`return (std::string)` - The value of the positional argument.

### `int size()`

Returns the number of positional arguments.

`return (int)` - The number of positional arguments.

# Build:

The argh library is built using Google's Bazel utility.

    $ cd src && bazel build //argh

And that's it. That is seriously all it takes. The binary will be put in the `bazel-bin` directory.

If you want to run the unit tests, you can do so with:
    
    $ cd src && bazel test //argh/tests:argh.test

Also, you can run the unit tests with ASAN profiling:

    $ cd src && bazel test --config=asan //argh/tests:argh.test

Bazel will automatically download and build the gtest library for you, run the tests, and save the results in the `bazel-testlogs` directory.
